Added project, clean up source, correct wording and doc clean up (#20556)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/parallel-programming/how-to-write-messages-to-and-read-messages-from-a-dataflow-block.md

---
title: "How to: Write and read messages from a Dataflow block"
ms.date: 09/10/2020
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
dev_langs:
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Task Parallel Library, dataflows"
  - "TPL dataflow library, reading and writing messages"
ms.assetid: 1a9bf078-aa82-46eb-b95a-f87237f028c5
---

# How to: Write and read messages from a Dataflow block

> This document describes how to use the TPL Dataflow Library to write messages to and read messages from a dataflow block. The TPL Dataflow Library provides both synchronous and asynchronous methods for writing messages to and reading messages from a dataflow block. This document uses the <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Dataflow.BufferBlock%601?displayProperty=nameWithType> class. The <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Dataflow.BufferBlock%601> class buffers messages and behaves as both a message source and as a message target.

Reviewer: Wording and style suggestions (document --> article, expand acronym on first use, etc.)

```suggestion
This article describes how to use the Task Parallel Library (TPL) Dataflow Library to write messages to and read messages from a dataflow block. The TPL Dataflow Library provides both synchronous and asynchronous methods for writing messages to and reading messages from a dataflow block. This article shows how to uses the <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Dataflow.BufferBlock%601?displayProperty=nameWithType> class. The <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Dataflow.BufferBlock%601> class buffers messages and behaves as both a message source and a message target.
```

[!INCLUDE [tpl-install-instructions](../../../includes/tpl-install-instructions.md)]

> ## Writing to and reading from a Dataflow block synchronously

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Writing and reading synchronously
```

:::code language="vb" source="../../../samples/snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_Misc/tpldataflow_readwrite/vb/dataflowreadwrite.vb" id="3":::

Because the <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Dataflow.DataflowBlock.Post%2A> method acts synchronously, the <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Dataflow.BufferBlock%601> object in the previous examples receives all data before the second loop reads data. The following example extends the first example by using <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task.WhenAll(System.Threading.Tasks.Task[])?displayProperty=nameWithType> to read from and write to the message block concurrently. Because <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task.WhenAll%2A> performs actions concurrently, the values are not written to the <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Dataflow.BufferBlock%601> object in any specific order.

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_Misc/tpldataflow_readwrite/cs/dataflowreadwrite.cs" id="4":::
:::code language="vb" source="../../../samples/snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_Misc/tpldataflow_readwrite/vb/dataflowreadwrite.vb" id="4":::

> ## Writing to and reading from a Dataflow block asynchronously

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Writing and reading asynchronously
```

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_Misc/tpldataflow_readwrite/cs/dataflowreadwrite.cs" id="5":::
:::code language="vb" source="../../../samples/snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_Misc/tpldataflow_readwrite/vb/dataflowreadwrite.vb" id="5":::

## A complete example

> The following example shows the complete code for this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows all of the code for this article.
```

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_Misc/tpldataflow_readwrite/cs/dataflowreadwrite.cs" id="1":::
:::code language="vb" source="../../../samples/snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_Misc/tpldataflow_readwrite/vb/dataflowreadwrite.vb" id="1":::

## Next steps

This example shows how to read from and write to a message block directly. You can also connect dataflow blocks to form *pipelines*, which are linear sequences of dataflow blocks, or *networks*, which are graphs of dataflow blocks. In a pipeline or network, sources asynchronously propagate data to targets as that data becomes available. For an example that creates a basic dataflow pipeline, see [Walkthrough: Creating a Dataflow Pipeline](walkthrough-creating-a-dataflow-pipeline.md). For an example that creates a more complex dataflow network, see [Walkthrough: Using Dataflow in a Windows Forms Application](walkthrough-using-dataflow-in-a-windows-forms-application.md).

## See also

> - [Dataflow](dataflow-task-parallel-library.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dataflow (Task Parallel Library)](dataflow-task-parallel-library.md)
```
